Job Title: Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists
Major:  Biology & Biomedical Sciences

Description: Study the origins, behavior, diseases, genetics, and life processes of animals and wildlife. May specialize in wildlife research and management. May collect and analyze biological data to determine the environmental effects of present and potential use of land and water habitats.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Zoologists and wildlife biologists study animals and other wildlife and how they interact with their ecosystems. They study the physical characteristics of animals, animal behaviors, and the impacts humans have on wildlife and natural habitats.Zoologists and wildlife biologists held about 20,100 jobs in 2012. They work in offices, laboratories, or outdoors. Depending on their position, they may spend considerable time in the field gathering data and studying animals in their natural habitats.Zoologists and wildlife biologists need a bachelor's degree for entry-level positions, but a master's degree is often needed for advancement. A Ph.D. is necessary for independent research and for university research positions.The median annual wage for zoologists and wildlife biologists was $57,710 in May 2012.Employment of zoologists and wildlife biologists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. More zoologists and wildlife biologists will be needed to study the impact of population growth and development on wildlife and their habitats.