Job Title: Library Assistants, Clerical
Major:  Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies & General Humanities

Description: Compile records, sort, shelve, issue, and receive library materials such as books, electronic media, pictures, cards, slides and microfilm. Locate library materials for loan and replace material in shelving area, stacks, or files according to identification number and title. Register patrons to permit them to borrow books, periodicals, and other library materials.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Library technicians and assistants help librarians with all aspects of running a library. They assist patrons, organize library materials and information, and perform clerical and administrative tasks.Library technicians and assistants work in public, school, company, and university libraries. Many work part time.Most library technicians need a postsecondary certificate or an associate's degree. Clerical library assistants usually learn through short-term on-the-job training.In May 2012, the median hourly wage for library technicians was $14.74.Â The median hourly wage for library assistants was $11.27 in May 2012.Employment of library technicians and assistants is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Libraries will use these workers to take over some of the duties of librarians, whose hourly wages are usually higher.