Job Title: Human Resources Assistants, Except Payroll and Timekeeping
Major:  Business Administration & Management

Description: Compile and keep personnel records. Record data for each employee, such as address, weekly earnings, absences, amount of sales or production, supervisory reports, and date of and reason for termination. May prepare reports for employment records, file employment records, or search employee files and furnish information to authorized persons.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Information clerks perform routine clerical duties such as maintaining records, collecting data, and providing information to customers.Although information clerks are employed in nearly every industry, many work in government agencies, hotels, and healthcare facilities. Most work full time.Information clerks typically need a high school diploma and learn their skills on the job. Some employers prefer to hire candidates with some college education, depending on the specialty.The median annual wage for information clerks was $30,650 in May 2012.Employment of information clerks is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Nonetheless, overall job opportunities should be good because of the need to replace workers who leave the occupation each year. Candidates with some college education and good computer skills should have the best job prospects.