Job Title: Career/Technical Education Teachers, Middle School
Major:  Education

Description: Teach occupational, career and technical, or vocational subjects in public or private schools at the middle, intermediate, or junior high level, which falls between elementary and senior high school as defined by applicable laws and regulations.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Career and technical education teachers instruct students in various technical and vocational subjects, such as auto repair, healthcare, and culinary arts. They teach academic and technical content to provide students with the skills and knowledge necessary to enter an occupation.Most career and technical education teachers work in public schools, including middle and high schools and 2-year colleges. Others work in technical, trade, and business schools. While they generally work during school hours, some teach evening or weekend classes.Although career and technical education teachers typically need a bachelor's degree, some may enter the occupation with a high school diploma or an associate's degree. Career and technical education teachers also need work experience in the subject they teach. Some teachers, particularly those in public schools, may be required to have a state-issued certification or license. Requirements for certification vary by state.The median annual wage for career and technical education teachers was $51,910 in May 2012.Employment of career and technical education teachers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Most job openings will result from the need to replace teachers who leave the occupation.