Job Title: Bus and Truck Mechanics and Diesel Engine Specialists
Major:  Mechanic & Repair Technician Programs

Description: Diagnose, adjust, repair, or overhaul buses and trucks, or maintain and repair any type of diesel engines. Includes mechanics working primarily with automobile or marine diesel engines.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Diesel service technicians and mechanics inspect, repair, or overhaul buses, trucks, and anything else with a diesel engine.Diesel service technicians and mechanics usually work in well-ventilated and sometimes noisy repair shops. They occasionally repair vehicles on roadsides or at worksites. Most diesel mechanics work full time, and overtime and evening shifts are common.Many diesel service technicians and mechanics learn informally on the job, but employers increasingly prefer applicants who have completed postsecondary training programs in diesel engine repair. Though not required, industry certification can be important for diesel mechanics.The median annual wage for diesel service technicians and mechanics was $42,320 in May 2012.Employment of diesel service technicians and mechanics is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Job opportunities should be best for those who have completed postsecondary training in diesel engine repair.