Job Title: Psychiatric Technicians
Major:  Medicine & Healthcare

Description: Care for individuals with mental or emotional conditions or disabilities, following the instructions of physicians or other health practitioners. Monitor patients' physical and emotional well-being and report to medical staff. May participate in rehabilitation and treatment programs, help with personal hygiene, and administer oral or injectable medications.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Psychiatric technicians and aides care for people who have mental illness and developmental disabilities. Technicians typically provide therapeutic care. Aides help patients in their daily activities and ensure a safe, clean environment.Psychiatric technicians and aides work in psychiatric hospitals, residential mental health facilities, and related healthcare settings. They may spend much of their shift on their feet, and they have high injury and illness rates.Psychiatric technicians typically need postsecondary education, and aides need at least a high school diploma. Technicians and aides get on-the-job training.In May 2012, the median annual wage for psychiatric technicians was $30,050. The median annual wage for psychiatric aides was $24,580 in May 2012.Employment of psychiatric technicians and aides is projected to grow 5 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Demand for this occupation will stem from the growth of the older population. Older people typically experience higher rates of cognitive illnesses than younger people do.