Job Title: Cement Masons and Concrete Finishers
Major:  Construction Trades

Description: Smooth and finish surfaces of poured concrete, such as floors, walks, sidewalks, roads, or curbs using a variety of hand and power tools. Align forms for sidewalks, curbs, or gutters; patch voids; and use saws to cut expansion joints.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Cement masons pour, smooth, and finish concrete floors, sidewalks, roads, and curbs. Using a cement mixture, terrazzo workers create durable and decorative surfaces for floors and stairways.Concrete and terrazzo work is fast paced and strenuous and often involves kneeling, bending, and reaching. Because many jobs are outdoors, work generally stops in wet weather. Most work full time.Although most cement masons and terrazzo workers learn on the job, some learn their trade through an apprenticeship.In May 2012, the median annual wage for cement masons and concrete finishers was $35,760.Â The median annual wage for terrazzo workers and finishers was $39,740 in May 2012.Employment of cement masons and terrazzo workers is projected to grow 29 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. Employment growth will depend on the number of commercial, public, and civil construction projects, including roads, bridges, and buildings. Overall job opportunities are expected to be good, particularly for those with related work experience.