Job Title: Operating Engineers and Other Construction Equipment Operators
Major:  Construction Trades

Description: Operate one or several types of power construction equipment, such as motor graders, bulldozers, scrapers, compressors, pumps, derricks, shovels, tractors, or front-end loaders to excavate, move, and grade earth, erect structures, or pour concrete or other hard surface pavement. May repair and maintain equipment in addition to other duties.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Construction equipment operators drive, maneuver, or control the heavy machinery used to construct roads, bridges, buildings, and other structures.Construction equipment operators work in nearly every weather condition. Workers often get dirty, greasy, muddy, or dusty. Most work full time, and some operators may have irregular hours. Some construction projects, especially road building, are done at night.Many workers learn equipment operation on the job, while others learn through an apprenticeship or by attending private trade schools.The median annual wage for construction equipment operators was $40,980 in May 2012.Employment of construction equipment operators is projected to grow 19 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Spending on infrastructure should generate many new jobs for construction equipment operators. Workers who can operate multiple types of equipment should have the best job opportunities.