Job Title: Computer and Information Research Scientists
Major:  Computer Science

Description: Conduct research into fundamental computer and information science as theorists, designers, or inventors. Develop solutions to problems in the field of computer hardware and software.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Computer and information research scientists invent and design new approaches to computing technology and find innovative uses for existing technology. They study and solve complex problems in computing for business, medicine, science, and other fields.Most computer and information research scientists work full time. Those working on independent research may have flexible work schedules.Most jobs for computer and information research scientists require a Ph.D. in computer science or a related field. In the federal government, a bachelor's degree may be sufficient for some jobs.The median annual wage for computer and information research scientists was $102,190 in May 2012.Employment of computer and information research scientists is projected to grow 15 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Computer scientists are likely to enjoy excellent job prospects, because many companies report difficulties finding these highly skilled workers.