Job Title: Physical Therapist Assistants
Major:  Medicine & Healthcare

Description: Assist physical therapists in providing physical therapy treatments and procedures. May, in accordance with State laws, assist in the development of treatment plans, carry out routine functions, document the progress of treatment, and modify specific treatments in accordance with patient status and within the scope of treatment plans established by a physical therapist. Generally requires formal training.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Physical therapist assistants (sometimes called PTAs) and physical therapist aides work under the direction and supervision of physical therapists. They help patients who are recovering from injuries and illnesses regain movement and manage pain.Most physical therapist assistants and aides work in physical therapists' offices or in hospitals. Physical therapist assistants and aides are frequently on their feet and moving as they set up equipment and help care for patients.Most states require physical therapist assistants to have an associate's degree from an accredited physical therapist assistant program. Physical therapist aides generally have a high school diploma and receive on-the-job training.In May 2012, the median annual wage for physical therapist assistants was $52,160. The median annual wage for physical therapist aides was $23,880 in May 2012.Employment of physical therapist assistants and aides is projected to grow 41 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. Demand for physical therapy services is expected to increase in response to the healthcare needs of an older population and growing rates of chronic conditions such as diabetes and obesity.