Job Title: Bus Drivers, School or Special Client
Major:  Transportation & Aviation

Description: Transport students or special clients, such as the elderly or persons with disabilities. Ensure adherence to safety rules. May assist passengers in boarding or exiting.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Bus drivers transport people between various places—including work, school, and shopping malls—and across state or national borders. Some drive regular routes, and others transport passengers on chartered trips or sightseeing tours.Bus drivers, especially transit and intercity bus drivers, had a higher rate of work-related injuries and illnesses in 2012 than the national average. Most injuries to bus drivers were due to highway accidents.Bus drivers must have a commercial driver's license (CDL) and complete a training program. In addition, they often need a high school diploma.The median annual wage for transit and intercity bus drivers, which includes charter bus drivers, was $36,600 in May 2012. The median annual wage of school or special client bus drivers was $28,080 in May 2012.Employment of bus drivers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Job opportunities for bus drivers should be favorable, especially for school bus drivers, as many drivers are expected to leave the occupation.