Job Title: Electrical Power-Line Installers and Repairers
Major:  Construction Trades

Description: Install or repair cables or wires used in electrical power or distribution systems. May erect poles and light or heavy duty transmission towers.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Line installers and repairers (also known as line workers) install or repair electrical power systems and telecommunications cables, including fiber optics.Line workers encounter serious hazards on the job, including working with high-voltage electricity, often at great heights. The work also can be physically demanding. Although most work full time during regular business hours, some work irregular hours on evenings, weekends, and holidays when needed.To become proficient, most line installers and repairers require technical instruction and long-term on-the-job training. Apprenticeships are common.In May 2012, the median annual wage for electrical power-line installers and repairers was $63,250. The median annual wage for telecommunications line installers and repairers was $51,410 in May 2012.Employment of line installers and repairers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Job opportunities should be best for those with good technical and mechanical skills. Those looking to become electric power-line installers should have the best job prospects.