Job Title: Sociologists
Major:  Philosophy & Religious Studies

Description: Study human society and social behavior by examining the groups and social institutions that people form, as well as various social, religious, political, and business organizations. May study the behavior and interaction of groups, trace their origin and growth, and analyze the influence of group activities on individual members.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Sociologists study society and social behavior by examining the groups, cultures, organizations, social institutions, and processes that people develop.Most sociologists work in research organizations, colleges and universities, state and local government, and consulting service firms. They typically work full time during regular business hours.Most sociology jobs require a master's degree or Ph.D. Many bachelor's degree holders will find positions in related fields, such as social services, education, or public policy.The median annual wage for sociologists was $74,960 in May 2012.Employment of sociologists is projected to grow 15 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. However, because it is a small occupation, the fast growth will result in only about 400 new jobs over the 10-year period. As a result, candidates should expect very strong competition for jobs.