Job Title: Public Address System and Other Announcers
Major:  Communications, Advertising & Journalism

Description: Make announcements over public address system at sporting or other public events. May act as master of ceremonies or disc jockey at weddings, parties, clubs, or other gathering places.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Announcers present music, news, and sports and may provide commentary or interview guests about these topics or other important events. Some act as masters of ceremonies (emcees) or disc jockeys (DJs) at weddings, parties, or clubs.Many announcers work in radio and television studios. Some announcers are self-employed; others work part time.Educational requirements for announcers vary. Radio and television announcers typically have a bachelor's degree in journalism, broadcasting, or communications, along with an internship or work experience from their college radio or television station. Public address system announcers typically need a high school diploma, along with short-term on-the-job training.In May 2012, the median annual wage for radio and television announcers was $28,020. The median annual wage for public address system and other announcers was $26,230 in May 2012.Employment of announcers is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Experienced, formally trained announcers should have the best job prospects.