Job Title: Aircraft Structure, Surfaces, Rigging, and Systems Assemblers
Major:  Mechanic & Repair Technician Programs

Description: Assemble, fit, fasten, and install parts of airplanes, space vehicles, or missiles, such as tails, wings, fuselage, bulkheads, stabilizers, landing gear, rigging and control equipment, or heating and ventilating systems.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Assemblers and fabricators assemble finished products and the parts that go into them. They use tools, machines, and their hands to make engines, computers, aircraft, ships, boats, toys, electronic devices, control panels, and more.Most assemblers and fabricators work in manufacturing plants. Some of the work may involve long periods of standing or sitting. Although workers may be exposed to harmful chemicals or fumes, the work is not inherently dangerous. Most work full time, and they sometimes work evenings and weekends.The education level and qualifications needed to enter these jobs vary depending on the industry and employer. Although a high school diploma is enough for most jobs, experience and additional training is needed for more advanced assembly work.The median annual wage for assemblers and fabricators was $28,580 in May 2012.Employment of assemblers and fabricators is projected to grow 4 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Qualified applicants, including those with technical vocational training and certification, should have the best job opportunities in the manufacturing sector, particularly in growing, high-technology industries, such as aerospace and electro-medical devices.