Job Title: Human Resources Specialists
Major:  Communications, Advertising & Journalism

Description: Perform activities in the human resource area. Includes employment specialists who screen, recruit, interview, and place workers.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Human resources specialists recruit, screen, interview, and place workers. They often handle other human resources work, such as those related to employee relations, payroll and benefits, and training. Labor relations specialists interpret and administer labor contracts regarding issues such as wages and salaries, employee welfare, healthcare, pensions, and union and management practices.Human resources specialists and labor relations specialists generally work in offices. Some, particularly recruitment specialists, travel extensively to attend job fairs, visit college campuses, and meet with applicants. Most work full time during regular business hours.Applicants must usually have a bachelor's degree in human resources, business, or a related field. However, the level of education and experience required varies by position and employer.Â In May 2012, the median annual wage for human resources specialists was $55,800. The median annual wage for labor relations specialists was $54,660 in May 2012.Employment of human resources specialists and labor relations specialists is projected to grow 7 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations.Â Job prospects for human resources specialists are expected to be favorable, but those for labor relations specialists are expected to be less favorable. Â 