Job Title: Marketing Managers
Major:  Communications, Advertising & Journalism

Description: Plan, direct, or coordinate marketing policies and programs, such as determining the demand for products and services offered by a firm and its competitors, and identify potential customers. Develop pricing strategies with the goal of maximizing the firm's profits or share of the market while ensuring the firm's customers are satisfied. Oversee product development or monitor trends that indicate the need for new products and services.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Advertising, promotions, and marketing managers plan programs to generate interest in a product or service. They work with art directors, sales agents, and financial staff members.About 24 percent of advertising and promotions managers worked for advertising agencies in 2012. About 16 percent of marketing managers worked in the management of companies and enterprises industry.A bachelor's degree is required for most advertising, promotions, and marketing management positions. These managers typically have work experience in advertising, marketing, promotions, or sales.In May 2012, the median annual wage for advertising and promotions managers was $88,590. The median annual wage for marketing managers was $119,480 in May 2012.Employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Advertising, promotions, and marketing will continue to be essential for organizations as they seek to maintain and expand their share of the market.