Job Title: Real Estate Brokers
Major:  Business Administration & Management

Description: Operate real estate office, or work for commercial real estate firm, overseeing real estate transactions. Other duties usually include selling real estate or renting properties and arranging loans.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Real estate brokers and sales agents help clients buy, sell, and rent properties. Although brokers and agents do similar work, brokers are licensed to manage their own real estate businesses. Sales agents must work with a real estate broker.Most real estate brokers and sales agents are self-employed. Although they often work long and irregular hours, many are able to set their own schedules.Every state requires real estate brokers and agents to be licensed. Requirements vary by state, but all states require candidates to be at least 18 or 19 years old, have a high school diploma, complete a number of hours of real estate courses, and pass a licensing exam.In May 2012, the median hourly wage for real estate brokers was $28.05. The median hourly wage for real estate agents was $18.82 in May 2012.Employment of real estate brokers and sales agents is projected to grow 11 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Employment will grow as the real estate market continues to recover from the recent economic recession.