Job Title: Chief Executives
Major:  Public Policy & Urban Studies

Description: Determine and formulate policies and provide overall direction of companies or private and public sector organizations within guidelines set up by a board of directors or similar governing body. Plan, direct, or coordinate operational activities at the highest level of management with the help of subordinate executives and staff managers.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Top executives devise strategies and policies to ensure that an organization meets its goals. They plan, direct, and coordinate operational activities of companies and organizations.Top executives work in nearly every industry. They work for large and small businesses, ranging from one-person companies to firms with thousands of employees. Top executives often work many hours, including evenings and weekends. In 2012, about half worked more than 40 hours per week. Travel is common, particularly for chief executives.Although education and training requirements vary widely by position and industry, many top executives have at least a bachelor's degree and a considerable amount of work experience.In May 2012, the median annual wage for chief executives was $168,140. The median annual wage for general and operations managers was $95,440 in May 2012.Employment of top executives is projected to grow 11 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Employment growth will vary by industry and is largely dependent on the rate of industry growth. Top executives should face very strong competition for jobs.