Job Title: Museum Technicians and Conservators
Major:  Anthropology & Archeology

Description: Restore, maintain, or prepare objects in museum collections for storage, research, or exhibit. May work with specimens such as fossils, skeletal parts, or botanicals; or artifacts, textiles, or art. May identify and record objects or install and arrange them in exhibits. Includes book or document conservators.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Archivists appraise, edit, and maintain permanent records and historically valuable documents. Curators oversee collections of artwork and historic items, and may conduct public service activities for an institution. Museum technicians and conservators prepare and restore objects and documents in museum collections and exhibits.Archivists work in archives and libraries. Most curators work at museums, zoos, aquariums, botanical gardens, and historical sites. Museum technicians work in museums, while conservators mostly work in laboratories.Most archivist, curator, and conservator positions require a master's degree related to the field in which they work. People often gain experience by working or volunteering in archives and museums. Museum technicians must have a bachelor's degree.The median annual wage for archivists, curators, and museum workers was $44,410 in May 2012.Overall employment of archivists, curators, museum technicians, and conservators is projected to grow 11 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations.Â The need to store information in archives and public interest in science, art, and history will continue to spur demand for curators, museum technicians, and conservators. Applicants should expect very strong competition for jobs.