Job Title: Insurance Adjusters, Examiners, and Investigators
Major:  Performing Arts

Description: Investigate, analyze, and determine the extent of insurance company's liability concerning personal, casualty, or property loss or damages, and attempt to effect settlement with claimants. Correspond with or interview medical specialists, agents, witnesses, or claimants to compile information. Calculate benefit payments and approve payment of claims within a certain monetary limit.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Claims adjusters, appraisers, examiners, and investigators evaluate insurance claims. They decide whether an insurance company must pay a claim, and if so, how much.Most claims adjusters, appraisers, examiners, and investigators work full time. They often work outside the office, inspecting properties for which insurance claims have been made, such as damaged buildings and automobiles.A high school diploma or equivalent is typically required to work as an entry-level claims adjuster, examiner, or investigator. Higher positions may require a bachelor's degree or some insurance-related work experience. Auto damage appraisers typically have a postsecondary non-degree award or work experience in identifying and estimating the cost of automotive repair.In May 2012, the median annual wage for claims adjusters, examiners, and investigators was $59,960. The median annual wage for insurance appraisers of auto damage was $58,610 in May 2012.Employment of claims adjusters, appraisers, examiners, and investigators is projected to grow 3 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Demand for these workers will result from growth in the health insurance industry, but be constrained by automation, and by safer automobiles resulting in fewer accidents and less demand for auto damage appraisers.