Job Title: Public Relations and Fundraising Managers
Major:  Communications, Advertising & Journalism

Description: Plan, direct, or coordinate activities designed to create or maintain a favorable public image or raise issue awareness for their organization or client; or if engaged in fundraising, plan, direct, or coordinate activities to solicit and maintain funds for special projects or nonprofit organizations.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Public relations managers plan and direct the creation of material that will maintain or enhance the public image of their employer or client. Fundraising managers coordinate campaigns that bring in donations for their organization.Public relations and fundraising managers generally work in offices during regular business hours. However, many must travel to give speeches and meet with individuals who are important to their organization. Many work more than 40 hours per week.Public relations and fundraising managers need at least a bachelor's degree and some positions may require a master's degree. Many years of related work experience is also necessary.The median annual wage for public relations and fundraising managers was $95,450 in May 2012.Employment of public relations and fundraising managers is projected to grow 13 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Employment of public relations managers will be driven by the need for organizations to maintain their public image in a high-information age and with the growth of social media. The need to raise funds for non-profit organizations will require more fundraising managers.