Job Title: Structural Metal Fabricators and Fitters
Major:  Metal Work & Precision Production

Description: Fabricate, position, align, and fit parts of structural metal products.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Assemblers and fabricators assemble finished products and the parts that go into them. They use tools, machines, and their hands to make engines, computers, aircraft, ships, boats, toys, electronic devices, control panels, and more.Most assemblers and fabricators work in manufacturing plants. Some of the work may involve long periods of standing or sitting. Although workers may be exposed to harmful chemicals or fumes, the work is not inherently dangerous. Most work full time, and they sometimes work evenings and weekends.The education level and qualifications needed to enter these jobs vary depending on the industry and employer. Although a high school diploma is enough for most jobs, experience and additional training is needed for more advanced assembly work.The median annual wage for assemblers and fabricators was $28,580 in May 2012.Employment of assemblers and fabricators is projected to grow 4 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Qualified applicants, including those with technical vocational training and certification, should have the best job opportunities in the manufacturing sector, particularly in growing, high-technology industries, such as aerospace and electro-medical devices.