Job Title: Hazardous Materials Removal Workers
Major:  Engineering

Description: Identify, remove, pack, transport, or dispose of hazardous materials, including asbestos, lead-based paint, waste oil, fuel, transmission fluid, radioactive materials, or contaminated soil. Specialized training and certification in hazardous materials handling or a confined entry permit are generally required. May operate earth-moving equipment or trucks.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Hazardous materials (hazmat) removal workers identify and dispose of asbestos, radioactive and nuclear waste, arsenic, lead, and other hazardous materials. They also neutralize and clean up materials that are flammable, corrosive, reactive, or toxic.Working conditions for hazmat removal workers differ depending on the material they are handling. Some must wear protective suits for several hours at a time. Completing projects often requires night and weekend work. Overtime is common, particularly for emergency or disaster response workers.Hazmat removal workers need a high school diploma and are trained on the job. Most workers complete up to 40 hours of training in accordance with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards. Some hazmat workers need a license.The median annual wage for hazardous materials removal workers was $37,590 in May 2012.Employment of hazmat removal workers is projected to grow 14 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Most job openings will stem from the need to replace workers who leave the occupation each year.