Job Title: Outdoor Power Equipment and Other Small Engine Mechanics
Major:  Engineering

Description: Diagnose, adjust, repair, or overhaul small engines used to power lawn mowers, chain saws, recreational sporting equipment and related equipment.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Small engine mechanics inspect, service, and repair motorized power equipment. Mechanics often specialize in one type of equipment, such as motorcycles, motorboats, or outdoor power equipment.Small engine mechanics generally work in well-ventilated but noisy repair shops. They sometimes make onsite repair calls, which may require working in poor weather conditions. Although most work full time during regular business hours, seasonal work hours often fluctuate. Workers are often busiest during the spring and summer, when use of equipment is the highest.Small engine mechanics typically enter the occupation with a high school diploma and learn their trade through on-the-job training. As motorized power equipment becomes more sophisticated, however, employers increasingly prefer to hire mechanics who have completed postsecondary education programs.The median annual wage for small engine mechanics was $32,640 in May 2012.Employment of small engine mechanics is projected to grow 6 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Those with formal training should have better job opportunities.