Job Title: Police, Fire, and Ambulance Dispatchers
Major:  Computer Science

Description: Operate radio, telephone, or computer equipment at emergency response centers. Receive reports from the public of crimes, disturbances, fires, and medical or police emergencies. Relay information to law enforcement and emergency response personnel. May maintain contact with caller until responders arrive.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Police, fire, and ambulance dispatchers, also called 9-1-1 operators or public safety telecommunicators, answer emergency and nonemergency calls.Police, fire, and ambulance dispatchers work in emergency communication centers. Dispatchers must be available around the clock, so they often have to work evenings, weekends, and holidays. Overtime and long shifts—sometimes 12 hours—are common. The pressure to respond quickly and calmly in alarming situations can be stressful.Most police, fire, and ambulance dispatchers have a high school diploma. Many states require dispatchers to become certified.The median annual wage for police, fire, and ambulance dispatchers was $36,300 in May 2012.Employment of police, fire, and ambulance dispatchers is projected to grow 8 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Although the prevalence of cellular phones has increased the number of calls that dispatchers receive, consolidation of call centers has increased responding efficiency. Job prospects should be good as the stressful nature of the job results in many workers leaving this occupation.