Job Title: Food Scientists and Technologists
Major:  Agriculture & Agricultural Sciences

Description: Use chemistry, microbiology, engineering, and other sciences to study the principles underlying the processing and deterioration of foods; analyze food content to determine levels of vitamins, fat, sugar, and protein; discover new food sources; research ways to make processed foods safe, palatable, and healthful; and apply food science knowledge to determine best ways to process, package, preserve, store, and distribute food.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Agricultural and food scientists work to ensure that agricultural establishments are productive and food is safe.Most agricultural and food scientists work in research universities, private industry, or the federal government. They work in offices, laboratories, and may sometimes work in food production facilities. Most agricultural and food scientists work full time.Agricultural and food scientists need at least a bachelor's degree from an accredited postsecondary institution, although many get a doctoral degree. Food scientists and technologists and soil and plant scientists typically earn bachelor's degrees. Most animal scientists earn a Ph.D.The median annual wage for agricultural and food scientists was $58,610 in May 2012.Employment of agricultural and food scientists is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Agricultural and food scientists should have good job prospects overall.