Job Title: Assessors
Major:  Political Science & Government

Description: Appraise real and personal property to determine its fair value. May assess taxes in accordance with prescribed schedules.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Appraisers and assessors of real estate estimate the value of land and the buildings on the land usually before it is sold, mortgaged, taxed, insured, or developed.Although appraisers and assessors of real estate work in offices, they often spend a large part of their day visiting properties. Most work full time during regular business hours.All appraisers and assessors must be licensed or certified, but requirements vary widely. Â To obtain a license, appraisers of residential real property usually must have at least an associate's degree, and appraisers of more complex residential or commercial property usually must have at least a bachelor's degree. For assessors, most states set education and experience requirements that an assessor must meet in order to practice.The median annual wage for appraisers and assessors of real estate was $49,540 in May 2012.Employment of appraisers and assessors of real estate is projected to grow 6 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Employment opportunities should be best in areas with active real estate markets. Workers should expect strong competition for jobs.