Job Title: Executive Secretaries and Executive Administrative Assistants
Major:  Business Administration & Management

Description: Provide high-level administrative support by conducting research, preparing statistical reports, handling information requests, and performing clerical functions such as preparing correspondence, receiving visitors, arranging conference calls, and scheduling meetings. May also train and supervise lower-level clerical staff.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Secretaries and administrative assistants perform routine clerical and administrative duties. They organize files, draft messages, schedule appointments, and support other staff.Although secretaries and administrative assistants work in nearly every industry, many are employed in schools, hospitals, governments, and legal and medical offices. Most work full time in office settings. Virtual assistants typically work from a home office.High school graduates with basic office and computer skills usually qualify for entry-level positions. Although most secretaries learn their job in several weeks, many legal and medical secretaries require several months of training to learn industry-specific terminology. Executive secretaries usually need several years of related work experience.The median annual wage for secretaries and administrative assistants was $35,330 in May 2012.Employment of secretaries and administrative assistants is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Many job openings will result from the need to replace workers who leave the occupation. Those with a combination of work experience and computer skills should have the best job prospects.