Job Title: Emergency Management and Disaster Relief

Information: There is not one clear path for working in emergency management. A wide variety of programs exist, including undergraduate and graduate degree options. It is important to research programs fully to find the best fit.Typically, a bachelors degree is required to secure an entry-level position. Consider majors in public administration, environmental science, political science, sociology, and business if not enrolled in an emergency management program.Certificate programs are also available to students who seek a shorter program focused on career development or knowledge of a specific discipline. Many certificate programs are available online to specialize in bioterrorism preparedness, disaster preparedness, or homeland security.The field of emergency management and disaster relief overlap with varied career areas such as law enforcement, nursing, social work, and others. Consider related occupations and explore all your options.Emergency Management is a competitive field and related work experience is essential. Consider obtaining EMT training and certification or work in a healthcare related field.Volunteer with your local emergency management or disaster relief organization. Seek training with your local American Red Cross (ARC) chapter.Gain experience through internships.Develop strong communication, teamwork, and leadership skills. Learn to handle stress.Keep up to date with current issues of concern for emergency management professionals.Join a professional association such as the National Emergency Management Association or the International Association of Emergency Managers.Be proactive when job searching. Emergency management positions can be difficult to find and are not always called emergency management.Many employers, especially in the public sector, require certification in the National Incident Management System. Courses to get certified can be taken online.Learn about government application processes. Contact your campus career center for assistance.Emergency management can be good preparation for graduate study in public administration, international affairs, management, and homeland security.

Major: Emergency Management

Area: Disaster Mitigation Planning Procedure/Policy Development Emergency Preparation Preparedness Training Response Mitigation and Recovery Crisis Management Evaluation/Assessment Emergency Field Coordination Inspection Building and Facility Inspection Fundraising/Grant Writing Volunteer Coordination Homeland Security Consultation Teaching 

Employer: Local and state government including law enforcementFederal government including:Department of Homeland SecurityFederal Emergency Management AgencyMilitaryPeace CorpsEducational institutions, including universities and collegesHealthcare organizations, including hospitalsPublic health organizationsPort authorities and airportsCommunity relief organizations such as:American Red CrossInternational Red CrossCAREInternational organizations such as:World Health Organization (WHO)United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF)United Nations Development ProgrammeWorld BankPrivate businesses