Job Title: Construction Managers
Major:  Construction Trades

Description: Plan, direct, or coordinate, usually through subordinate supervisory personnel, activities concerned with the construction and maintenance of structures, facilities, and systems. Participate in the conceptual development of a construction project and oversee its organization, scheduling, budgeting, and implementation. Includes managers in specialized construction fields, such as carpentry or plumbing.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Construction managers plan, coordinate, budget, and supervise construction projects from development to completion.Many construction managers work from a main office, but most work out of a field office at the construction site, where they monitor the project and make daily decisions about construction activities. The need to meet deadlines and respond to emergencies often requires long hours.Large construction firms increasingly prefer candidates with both construction experience and a bachelor's degree in a construction-related field. However, some managers may qualify with a high school diploma and by working many years in a construction trade, although most will qualify primarily as self-employed general contractors.The median annual wage for construction managers was $82,790 in May 2012.Employment of construction managers is projected to grow 16 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Construction managers will be needed as overall construction activity increases over the coming decade. Those with a bachelor's degree in construction science, construction management, or civil engineering, coupled with construction experience, will have the best job prospects.