Job Title: Nuclear Power Reactor Operators
Major:  Chemistry

Description: Operate or control nuclear reactors. Move control rods, start and stop equipment, monitor and adjust controls, and record data in logs. Implement emergency procedures when needed. May respond to abnormalities, determine cause, and recommend corrective action.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers control the systems that generate and distribute electric power.Most workers are employed full time, and many work rotating shifts, which can be tiring.Power plant operators, dispatchers, and distributors need extensive on-the-job training that may include a combination of classroom and hands-on training. Nuclear power reactor operators also need a license. Many jobs require a background check, and workers are subject to drug and alcohol screenings.The median annual wage for power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers was $68,230 in May 2012.Employment of power plant operators, distributors, and dispatchers is projected to decline 8 percent from 2012 to 2022. Although electricity usage is expected to grow, advances in technology and increased energy efficiency will contribute to decreases in employment for the occupations. Still, because the workforce is aging, job prospects should be good for those with related training and good mechanical skills.