Job Title: Forest and Conservation Technicians
Major:  Environmental Science & Natural Resources

Description: Provide technical assistance regarding the conservation of soil, water, forests, or related natural resources. May compile data pertaining to size, content, condition, and other characteristics of forest tracts, under the direction of foresters; or train and lead forest workers in forest propagation, fire prevention and suppression. May assist conservation scientists in managing, improving, and protecting rangelands and wildlife habitats.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Forest and conservation technicians measure and improve the quality of forests, rangeland, and other natural areas.Forest and conservation technicians typically work outdoors, sometimes in remote locations and in all types of weather. The work can be physically difficult.Forest and conservation technicians typically need an associate's degree in forestry or a related field. Employers look for technicians who have a degree that is accredited by the Society of American Foresters (SAF).The median annual wage for forest and conservation technicians was $33,920 in May 2012.Employment of forest and conservation technicians is projected to decline 4 percent from 2012 to 2022.Heightened demand for American timber, wood pellets, and biomass will help overall job prospects for forest and conservation technicians.