Job Title: Food Service Managers
Major:  Protective Services, Criminal Justice & Criminology

Description: Plan, direct, or coordinate activities of an organization or department that serves food and beverages.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Food service managers are responsible for the daily operation of restaurants and other establishments that prepare and serve food and beverages. They direct staff to ensure that customers are satisfied with their dining experience and the business is profitable.Food service managers work in restaurants, hotels, school cafeterias, and other establishments where food is prepared and served. Managers at fine-dining and fast-food restaurants often work longer hours—50 or more per week. The work can be hectic, and dealing with unhappy customers can be stressful.Most applicants qualify with a high school diploma and long-term work experience in the food service industry. However, some receive training at a community college, technical or vocational school, culinary school, or a 4-year college.The median annual wage for food service managers was $47,960 in May 2012.Employment of food service managers is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Jobseekers with a combination of long-term work experience in food service and a degree in hospitality, restaurant, or food service management will have the best job opportunities.