Job Title: Library Technicians
Major:  Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies & General Humanities

Description: Assist librarians by helping readers in the use of library catalogs, databases, and indexes to locate books and other materials; and by answering questions that require only brief consultation of standard reference. Compile records; sort and shelve books or other media; remove or repair damaged books or other media; register patrons; and check materials in and out of the circulation process. Replace materials in shelving area (stacks) or files. Includes bookmobile drivers who assist with providing services in mobile libraries.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Library technicians and assistants help librarians with all aspects of running a library. They assist patrons, organize library materials and information, and perform clerical and administrative tasks.Library technicians and assistants work in public, school, company, and university libraries. Many work part time.Most library technicians need a postsecondary certificate or an associate's degree. Clerical library assistants usually learn through short-term on-the-job training.In May 2012, the median hourly wage for library technicians was $14.74.Â The median hourly wage for library assistants was $11.27 in May 2012.Employment of library technicians and assistants is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Libraries will use these workers to take over some of the duties of librarians, whose hourly wages are usually higher.