Job Title: Flight Attendants
Major:  Transportation & Aviation

Description: Provide personal services to ensure the safety, security, and comfort of airline passengers during flight. Greet passengers, verify tickets, explain use of safety equipment, and serve food or beverages.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Flight attendants provide personal services to ensure the safety and comfort of airline passengers.Flight attendants work evenings, weekends, and holidays, because airlines operate every day and have overnight flights. Attendants work in aircraft and may be away from home 2 to three 3 nights per week. Most have variable schedules.Flight attendants receive initial training from their employer and must be certified by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Although flight attendants must have at least a high school diploma or the equivalent, some airlines prefer to hire applicants who have some college. Prospective flight attendants typically need previous work experience in customer service. Applicants must be at least 18 years old, eligible to work in the United States, have a valid passport, and pass a background check.The median annual wage for flight attendants was $37,240 in May 2012.Employment of flight attendants is projected to decline 7 percent from 2012 to 2022. Job prospects should be best for applicants with a college degree.