Job Title: Automotive Master Mechanics
Major:  Mechanic & Repair Technician Programs

Description: Repair automobiles, trucks, buses, and other vehicles. Master mechanics repair virtually any part on the vehicle or specialize in the transmission system.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Automotive service technicians and mechanics, often called service technicians or service techs, inspect, maintain, and repair cars and light trucks.Most automotive service technicians and mechanics work in well-ventilated and well-lit repair shops. Although automotive problems often can be identified and fixed with computers, technicians perform many tasks with greasy parts and tools, sometimes in uncomfortable positions.A high school diploma or the equivalent is typically the minimum requirement to work as an automotive service technician or mechanic. Because automotive technology is becoming increasingly sophisticated, some employers prefer automotive service technicians and mechanics who have completed a formal training program in a postsecondary institution. Industry certification usually is required once the person is employed.The median annual wage for automotive service technicians and mechanics was $36,610 in May 2012.Employment of automotive service technicians and mechanics is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Job opportunities for qualified jobseekers should be very good.