Job Title: Occupational Therapy Assistants
Major:  Medicine & Healthcare

Description: Assist occupational therapists in providing occupational therapy treatments and procedures. May, in accordance with State laws, assist in development of treatment plans, carry out routine functions, direct activity programs, and document the progress of treatments. Generally requires formal training.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Occupational therapy assistants and aides help patients develop, recover, and improve the skills needed for daily living and working. Occupational therapy assistants are directly involved in providing therapy to patients, while occupational therapy aides typically perform support activities. Both assistants and aides work under the direction of occupational therapists.Occupational therapy assistants and aides work primarily in occupational therapists' offices, hospitals, and nursing care facilities. Occupational therapy assistants and aides spend much of their time on their feet setting up equipment and, in the case of assistants, working with patients.Occupational therapy assistants need an associate's degree from an accredited occupational therapy assistant program. In most states, occupational therapy assistants must be licensed. Occupational therapy aides typically have a high school diploma or equivalent.In May 2012, the median annual wage for occupational therapy assistants was $53,240.Â The median annual wage for occupational therapy aides was $26,850 in May 2012.Employment of occupational therapy assistants and aides is projected to grow 41 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. Occupational therapy will continue to be an important part of treatment for people with various illnesses and disabilities.