Job Title: Property, Real Estate, and Community Association Managers
Major:  Family & Consumer Sciences, Food, Nutrition

Description: Plan, direct, or coordinate the selling, buying, leasing, or governance activities of commercial, industrial, or residential real estate properties. Includes managers of homeowner and condominium associations, rented or leased housing units, buildings, or land (including rights-of-way).

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Property, real estate, and community association managers take care of the many aspects of residential, commercial, or industrial properties. They make sure the property is well maintained, has a nice appearance, and preserves its resale or leasing value.Most property, real estate, and community association managers work out of an office. However, many onsite managers spend a large part of their workday doing tasks away from the office, such as showing apartments, inspecting the grounds, or meeting with owners. About half were self-employed in 2012.Although many employers prefer to hire college graduates, a high school diploma is enough for some introductory management positions. Some managers receive vocational training. Other managers must have a real estate license.The median annual wage for property, real estate, and community association managers was $52,610 in May 2012.Employment of property, real estate, and community association managers is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations.Â Job opportunities should be best for those with a college degree in business administration or real estate and for those who obtain professional certification.