Job Title: Nannies
Major:  Family & Consumer Sciences, Food, Nutrition

Description: Care for children in private households and provide support and expertise to parents in satisfying children's physical, emotional, intellectual, and social needs. Duties may include meal planning and preparation, laundry and clothing care, organization of play activities and outings, discipline, intellectual stimulation, language activities, and transportation.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Childcare workers care for children when parents and other family members are unavailable. They care for children's basic needs, such as bathing and feeding. In addition, some help children prepare for kindergarten or help older children with homework.Childcare workers care for children in childcare centers, their own home, or the homes of the children in their care. Many work full time, but part-time work and irregular hours are common.Education and training requirements vary by setting, state, and employer. They range from less than a high school diploma to an early childhood education certification.The median hourly wage for childcare workers was $9.38 in May 2012.Employment of childcare workers is projected to grow 14 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Growth is expected due to increases in the number of children who require childcare and continued demand for preschool programs.