Job Title: Cabinetmakers and Bench Carpenters
Major:  Metal Work & Precision Production

Description: Cut, shape, and assemble wooden articles or set up and operate a variety of woodworking machines, such as power saws, jointers, and mortisers to surface, cut, or shape lumber or to fabricate parts for wood products.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Woodworkers manufacture a variety of products such as cabinets and furniture, using wood, veneers, and laminates. They often combine and incorporate different materials into wood.Although working conditions vary from plant to plant, some woodworkers may encounter machinery noise and wood dust. Others work in modern plants with good lighting, active dust control, and sound deadening enclosures. Woodworkers have a higher rate of injuries and illnesses than the national average.Although some entry-level jobs can be learned in less than 1 year, becoming fully proficient generally takes at least 3 years of on-the-job training. The ability to use computer-controlled machinery is becoming increasingly important.The median hourly wage for woodworkers was $13.67 in May 2012.Employment of woodworkers is projected to grow 8 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Those who have advanced skills, including the ability to use computer-controlled machinery, should have the best job opportunities in manufacturing industries.