Job Title: Statisticians
Major:  Philosophy & Religious Studies

Description: Develop or apply mathematical or statistical theory and methods to collect, organize, interpret, and summarize numerical data to provide usable information. May specialize in fields such as bio-statistics, agricultural statistics, business statistics, or economic statistics. Includes mathematical and survey statisticians.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Statisticians use statistical methods to collect and analyze data and help solve real-world problems in business, engineering, the sciences, or other fields.Although statisticians work mostly in offices, they may travel to oversee a survey's design or implementation or to collect data. About a quarter of statisticians work for government; many others work for private businesses.Statisticians typically need a graduate degree in statistics or mathematics. However, there are an increasing number of positions available for those with only a bachelor's degree.The median annual wage for statisticians was $75,560 in May 2012.Employment of statisticians is projected to grow 27 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations.Â Growth is expected to result from more widespread use of statistical analysis to make informed business, healthcare, and policy decisions.