Job Title: Treasurers and Controllers
Major:  Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies & General Humanities

Description: Direct financial activities, such as planning, procurement, and investments for all or part of an organization.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Financial managers are responsible for the financial health of an organization. They produce financial reports, direct investment activities, and develop strategies and plans for the long-term financial goals of their organization.Financial managers work in many industries, including banks and insurance companies. Most financial managers work full time, and many work long hours.Financial managers typically have a bachelor's degree and 5 years or more of experience in another business or financial occupation, such as loan officer, accountant, auditor, securities sales agent, or financial analyst.The median annual wage for financial managers was $109,740 in May 2012.Employment of financial managers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. As with other managerial occupations, jobseekers are likely to face competition because the number of job openings is expected to be fewer than the number of applicants. Candidates with a master's degree or certification should enjoy the best job prospects.