Job Title: Claims Examiners, Property and Casualty Insurance
Major:  Law & Legal Studies

Description: Review settled insurance claims to determine that payments and settlements have been made in accordance with company practices and procedures. Report overpayments, underpayments, and other irregularities. Confer with legal counsel on claims requiring litigation.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Claims adjusters, appraisers, examiners, and investigators evaluate insurance claims. They decide whether an insurance company must pay a claim, and if so, how much.Most claims adjusters, appraisers, examiners, and investigators work full time. They often work outside the office, inspecting properties for which insurance claims have been made, such as damaged buildings and automobiles.A high school diploma or equivalent is typically required to work as an entry-level claims adjuster, examiner, or investigator. Higher positions may require a bachelor's degree or some insurance-related work experience. Auto damage appraisers typically have a postsecondary non-degree award or work experience in identifying and estimating the cost of automotive repair.In May 2012, the median annual wage for claims adjusters, examiners, and investigators was $59,960. The median annual wage for insurance appraisers of auto damage was $58,610 in May 2012.Employment of claims adjusters, appraisers, examiners, and investigators is projected to grow 3 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Demand for these workers will result from growth in the health insurance industry, but be constrained by automation, and by safer automobiles resulting in fewer accidents and less demand for auto damage appraisers.