Job Title: Diagnostic Medical Sonographers
Major:  Medicine & Healthcare

Description: Produce ultrasonic recordings of internal organs for use by physicians.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Diagnostic medical sonographers and cardiovascular technologists and technicians, including vascular technologists, operate special imaging equipment to create images or conduct tests. The images and test results help physicians assess and diagnose medical conditions. Some technologists assist physicians and surgeons during surgical procedures.Most diagnostic medical sonographers and cardiovascular technologists and technicians, including vascular technologists, work full time. Most diagnostic imaging workers were employed in hospitals in 2012, while others worked in healthcare settings such as physician's offices and medical and diagnostic laboratories.Diagnostic medical sonographers and cardiovascular technologists and technicians, including vascular technologists, need formal education, such as an associate's degree or a postsecondary certificate. Many employers also require professional certification.In May 2012, the median annual wage for diagnostic medical sonographers was $65,860. The median annual wage for cardiovascular technologists and technicians, including vascular technologists, was $52,070 in May 2012.Employment of diagnostic medical sonographers and cardiovascular technologists and technicians, including vascular technologists is projected to grow 39 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations.