Job Title: Agricultural Technicians
Major:  Personal Care Services

Description: Set up or maintain laboratory equipment and collect samples from crops or animals. Prepare specimens or record data to assist scientists in biology or related life science experiments.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Agricultural and food science technicians assist agricultural and food scientists by performing duties such as measuring and analyzing the quality of food and agricultural products.Agricultural and food science technicians work in laboratories, processing plants, farms and ranches, and offices.Agricultural and food science technicians typically need an associate's degree in biology, animal science, or a related field. Some positions may require a bachelor's degree. For those positions that require only a high school diploma, technicians typically need to have previous work experience. Technicians typically need on-the-job training that may cover topics such as production techniques, personal hygiene, and sanitation procedures.The median annual wage for agricultural and food science technicians was $34,070 in May 2012.Employment of agricultural and food science technicians is projected to grow 3 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. More technology and scientific knowledge related to food production will allow greater control of the production and processing activities and in turn increase demand for these workers.