Job Title: Bailiffs
Major:  Protective Services, Criminal Justice & Criminology

Description: Maintain order in courts of law.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Correctional officers are responsible for overseeing individuals who have been arrested and are awaiting trial or who have been sentenced to serve time in a jail or prison.Working in a correctional institution can be stressful and dangerous. Correctional officers and jailers have one of the highest rates of injuries and illnesses, often resulting from confrontations with inmates. Because jail and prison security must be provided 24 hours a day, officers work all hours of the day and night, weekends, and holidays.Correctional officers go through a training academy and then are assigned to a facility for on-the-job training. Although qualifications vary by state and agency, all agencies require a high school diploma. Some federal agencies also require some college education or related work experience.The median annual wage for correctional officers and jailers was $39,040 in May 2012. The median annual wage for bailiffs was $36,840 in May 2012.Employment of correctional officers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Although budget constraints and a falling crime rate will require fewer workers, job openings will continue to become available Â because the dangers associated with the job cause many to leave the occupation each year.