Job Title: Lodging Managers
Major:  Agriculture & Agricultural Sciences

Description: Plan, direct, or coordinate activities of an organization or department that provides lodging and other accommodations.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Lodging managers ensure that guests on vacation or business travel have a pleasant experience at a hotel, motel, or other types of establishment with accommodations. They also ensure that the establishment is run efficiently and profitably.Because hotels are open around the clock, evening and weekend work is common. Most lodging managers work full time and are often on call. The work can be pressure filled and stressful.Many applicants can qualify as a lodging manager by having a high school diploma and several years of experience working in a hotel. However, most large, full-service hotels require applicants to have a bachelor's degree. Hotels that provide fewer services generally accept applicants who have an associate's degree or a certificate in hotel management or operations.Â The median annual wage for lodging managers was $46,810 in May 2012.Employment of lodging managers is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Applicants with a bachelor's degree in hotel or hospitality management are expected to have the best job opportunities. Applicants can expect strong competition for most jobs.