Job Title: Radio and Television Announcers
Major:  Agriculture & Agricultural Sciences

Description: Speak or read from scripted materials, such as news reports or commercial messages, on radio or television. May announce artist or title of performance, identify station, or interview guests.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Announcers present music, news, and sports and may provide commentary or interview guests about these topics or other important events. Some act as masters of ceremonies (emcees) or disc jockeys (DJs) at weddings, parties, or clubs.Many announcers work in radio and television studios. Some announcers are self-employed; others work part time.Educational requirements for announcers vary. Radio and television announcers typically have a bachelor's degree in journalism, broadcasting, or communications, along with an internship or work experience from their college radio or television station. Public address system announcers typically need a high school diploma, along with short-term on-the-job training.In May 2012, the median annual wage for radio and television announcers was $28,020. The median annual wage for public address system and other announcers was $26,230 in May 2012.Employment of announcers is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Experienced, formally trained announcers should have the best job prospects.