Job Title: Mining and Geological Engineers, Including Mining Safety Engineers
Major:  Astronomy & Astrophysics

Description: Conduct sub-surface surveys to identify the characteristics of potential land or mining development sites. May specify the ground support systems, processes and equipment for safe, economical, and environmentally sound extraction or underground construction activities. May inspect areas for unsafe geological conditions, equipment, and working conditions. May design, implement, and coordinate mine safety programs.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Mining and geological engineers design mines for the safe and efficient removal of minerals such as coal and metals for manufacturing and utilities.Mining engineers work mostly in mining operations in remote locations. However, some work in sand-and-gravel operations located near large cities.A bachelor's degree from an accredited engineering program is required to become a mining or geological engineer. However, work as a credentialed professional engineer requires licensure. Requirements for licensure vary by state but generally require passing two exams.The median annual wage for mining and geological engineers, including mining safety engineers was $84,320 in May 2012.Employment of mining and geological engineers is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Still, the expected growth of the occupation will not be large, in terms of the number of new positions overall, because the occupation is a relatively small one.