Job Title: Avionics Technicians
Major:  Mechanic & Repair Technician Programs

Description: Install, inspect, test, adjust, or repair avionics equipment, such as radar, radio, navigation, and missile control systems in aircraft or space vehicles.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Aircraft and avionics equipment mechanics and technicians repair and perform scheduled maintenance on aircraft. They also may perform aircraft inspections as required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).Aircraft and avionics equipment mechanics and technicians work in hangars, in repair stations, or on airfields. They must often meet strict deadlines to maintain flight schedules. The environment can be loud because of aircraft engines and equipment. Workers frequently bend, stoop, and reach from ladders and scaffolds. Most mechanics and technicians work full time; overtime and weekend work is common.Most aircraft and avionics equipment mechanics and technicians learn their trade at an FAA-approved Aviation Maintenance Technician School. Others enter with a high school education or equivalent and are trained on the job. Some workers enter the occupation after receiving training in the military. Aircraft mechanics and avionics technicians are typically certified by the FAA.In May 2012, the median annual wage for aircraft mechanics and service technicians was $55,210. The median annual wage for avionics technicians was $55,350 in May 2012.Employment of aircraft and avionics equipment mechanics and technicians is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Job prospects will be best for mechanics who hold an Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) certificate.