Job Title: Loan Officers
Major:  Business Administration & Management

Description: Evaluate, authorize, or recommend approval of commercial, real estate, or credit loans. Advise borrowers on financial status and payment methods. Includes mortgage loan officers and agents, collection analysts, loan servicing officers, and loan underwriters.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Loan officers evaluate, authorize, or recommend approval of loan applications for people and businesses.Most loan officers are employed by commercial banks, credit unions, mortgage companies, and related financial institutions. Most commercial and consumer loan officers work full time, and many mortgage loan officers work very long hours. Except for consumer loan officers, traveling to visit clients is common.Most loan officers need a bachelor's degree and receive on-the-job training. Mortgage loan officers must be licensed.The median annual wage for loan officers was $59,820 in May 2012. Some loan officers are paid a flat salary; others are paid on commission.Employment of loan officers is projected to grow 8 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. The need for loan officers fluctuates with the economy, generally increasing in times of economic growth, low interest rates, and population growth—all of which create demand for loans.