Job Title: Electronics Engineering Technicians
Major:  Computer Science

Description: Lay out, build, test, troubleshoot, repair, and modify developmental and production electronic components, parts, equipment, and systems, such as computer equipment, missile control instrumentation, electron tubes, test equipment, and machine tool numerical controls, applying principles and theories of electronics, electrical circuitry, engineering mathematics, electronic and electrical testing, and physics. Usually work under direction of engineering staff.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Electrical and electronics engineering technicians help engineers design and develop computers, communications equipment, medical monitoring devices, navigational equipment, and other electrical and electronic equipment. They often work in product evaluation and testing, using measuring and diagnostic devices to adjust, test, and repair equipment.Electrical and electronics engineering technicians work closely with electrical engineers. They work primarily in manufacturing settings, research and development laboratories, and the utilities industry.Electrical and electronics engineering technicians typically need an associate's degree.The median annual wage for electrical and electronics engineering technicians was $57,850 in May 2012.Employment of electrical and electronics engineering technicians is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. These technicians work in manufacturing industries, many of which are declining or growing slowly.