Job Title: Vocational Education Teachers, Postsecondary
Major:  Communications, Advertising & Journalism

Description: Teach or instruct vocational or occupational subjects at the postsecondary level (but at less than the baccalaureate) to students who have graduated or left high school. Includes correspondence school, industrial, and commercial instructors; and adult education teachers and instructors who prepare persons to operate industrial machinery and equipment and transportation and communications equipment. Teaching may take place in public or private schools whose primary business is education or in a school associated with an organization whose primary business is other than education.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Career and technical education teachers instruct students in various technical and vocational subjects, such as auto repair, healthcare, and culinary arts. They teach academic and technical content to provide students with the skills and knowledge necessary to enter an occupation.Most career and technical education teachers work in public schools, including middle and high schools and 2-year colleges. Others work in technical, trade, and business schools. While they generally work during school hours, some teach evening or weekend classes.Although career and technical education teachers typically need a bachelor's degree, some may enter the occupation with a high school diploma or an associate's degree. Career and technical education teachers also need work experience in the subject they teach. Some teachers, particularly those in public schools, may be required to have a state-issued certification or license. Requirements for certification vary by state.The median annual wage for career and technical education teachers was $51,910 in May 2012.Employment of career and technical education teachers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Most job openings will result from the need to replace teachers who leave the occupation.