Job Title: Personal Care Aides
Major:  Family & Consumer Sciences, Food, Nutrition

Description: Assist the elderly, convalescents, or persons with disabilities with daily living activities at the person's home or in a care facility. Duties performed at a place of residence may include keeping house (making beds, doing laundry, washing dishes) and preparing meals. May provide assistance at non-residential care facilities. May advise families, the elderly, convalescents, and persons with disabilities regarding such things as nutrition, cleanliness, and household activities.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Personal care aides help clients with self-care and everyday tasks, and provide companionship.Personal care aides held about 1.2 million jobs in 2012. They work in a variety of settings, including patients' homes and larger care communities.Most personal care aides are trained on the job. There are no formal education requirements for personal care aides, but most aides have a high school diploma.The median annual wage for personal care aides was $19,910 in May 2012. About half of all personal care aides work full time.Employment of personal care aides is projected to grow 49 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. As the baby-boom population ages, there will be an increase in the number of clients requiring assistance or companionship.