Job Title: Sheet Metal Workers
Major:  Metal Work & Precision Production

Description: Fabricate, assemble, install, and repair sheet metal products and equipment, such as ducts, control boxes, drainpipes, and furnace casings. Work may involve any of the following: setting up and operating fabricating machines to cut, bend, and straighten sheet metal; shaping metal over anvils, blocks, or forms using hammer; operating soldering and welding equipment to join sheet metal parts; or inspecting, assembling, and smoothing seams and joints of burred surfaces. Includes sheet metal duct installers who install prefabricated sheet metal ducts used for heating, air conditioning, or other purposes.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Sheet metal workers fabricate or install products that are made from thin metal sheets, such as ducts used for heating and air conditioning.Sheet metal workers often lift heavy materials and stand for long periods. Those who install sheet metal often must bend, climb, and squat, sometimes in awkward positions. Most work full time.Although most sheet metal workers, particularly those in construction, learn their trade through an apprenticeship, those who work in manufacturing often learn on the job or at a technical college.The median annual wage for sheet metal workers was $43,290 in May 2012.Employment of sheet metal workers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Job opportunities should be particularly good for sheet metal workers who complete apprenticeship training or those who are certified welders.