Job Title: Sailors and Marine Oilers
Major:  Transportation & Aviation

Description: Stand watch to look for obstructions in path of vessel, measure water depth, turn wheel on bridge, or use emergency equipment as directed by captain, mate, or pilot. Break out, rig, overhaul, and store cargo-handling gear, stationary rigging, and running gear. Perform a variety of maintenance tasks to preserve the painted surface of the ship and to maintain line and ship equipment. Must hold government-issued certification and tankerman certification when working aboard liquid-carrying vessels. Includes able seamen and ordinary seamen.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Workers in water transportation occupations operate and maintain vessels that take cargo and people over water. These vessels travel to and from foreign ports across the ocean, to domestic ports along the coasts, across the Great Lakes, and along the country's many inland waterways.Workers in water transportation occupations usually work for long periods on small and cramped ships, which can be uncomfortable.Education and training requirements vary by the type of job. Officers and engineers usually must have a bachelor's degree. Most water transportation jobs require the Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and a Merchant Marine Credential (MMC).The median annual wage for water transportation occupations was $48,980 in May 2012.Employment of water transportation occupations is projected to grow 13 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. As the economy recovers, the demand for waterway freight shipping will grow, increasing the need for these workers.