Job Title: Computer, Automated Teller, and Office Machine Repairers
Major:  Metal Work & Precision Production

Description: Repair, maintain, or install computers, word processing systems, automated teller machines, and electronic office machines, such as duplicating and fax machines.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Computer, ATM, and office machine repairers install, fix, and maintain many of the machines that businesses, households, and other consumers use.These repairers often do their work on-site, traveling to customer locations for large or stationary machines. They mostly work for private businesses, but about 14 percent were self-employed in 2012.Knowledge of electronics is essential for computer, ATM, and office machine repairers. Most workers take some postsecondary classes, although some who can demonstrate knowledge may be hired with a high school diploma. Strong communication and customer-service skills are important because these workers often interact with customers to figure out what needs to be repaired.The median annual wage for computer, ATM, and office machine repairers was $36,620 in May 2012.Employment of computer, ATM, and office machine repairers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Remote diagnostic software will result in repairers becoming more productive, limiting overall employment growth.