Job Title: Brickmasons and Blockmasons
Major:  Construction Trades

Description: Lay and bind building materials, such as brick, structural tile, concrete block, cinder block, glass block, and terra-cotta block, with mortar and other substances to construct or repair walls, partitions, arches, sewers, and other structures.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Brickmasons, blockmasons, and stonemasons (or, simply, masons) use bricks, concrete blocks, and natural and man-made stones to build fences, walkways, walls, and other structures.The work is physically demanding because masons lift heavy materials and often must stand, kneel, and bend for long periods. They usually work outdoors, so poor weather conditions may reduce work activity. Most masons work full time.Although most masons learn through an apprenticeship, some learn on the job. Others learn through 1- or 2-year mason programs at technical schools.In May 2012, the median annual wage for brickmasons and blockmasons was $46,440.Â The median annual wage for stonemasons was $37,350 in May 2012.Employment of masons is projected to grow 34 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. Population growth will result in the construction of Â more schools, hospitals, homes, and other buildings. Workers with a good job history and with experience in masonry and construction should have the best job opportunities.