Job Title: Maintenance Workers, Machinery
Major:  Agriculture & Agricultural Sciences

Description: Lubricate machinery, change parts, or perform other routine machinery maintenance.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Industrial machinery mechanics and maintenance workers maintain and repair factory equipment and other industrial machinery, such as conveying systems, production machinery, and packaging equipment.Â Millwrights install, dismantle, repair, reassemble, and move machinery in factories, power plants, and construction sites.Workers in this occupation must follow safety precautions and use protective equipment, such as hardhats, safety glasses, and hearing protectors. Most work full time. However, they may be on call and work night or weekend shifts. Overtime is common.Industrial machinery mechanics and maintenance workers and millwrights typically need a high school diploma. However, industrial machinery mechanics need a year or more of training after high school, whereas maintenance workers typically receive on-the-job training that lasts up to a year. Most millwrights go through a 4-year apprenticeship.The median annual wage for industrial machinery mechanics and maintenance workers and millwrights was $45,840 in May 2012.Employment of industrial machinery mechanics and maintenance workers and millwrights is projected to grow 17 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. The need to keep increasingly sophisticated machinery functioning and efficient will drive demand for these workers. Job prospects for qualified applicants should be very good.