Job Title: Epidemiologists
Major:  Biology & Biomedical Sciences

Description: Investigate and describe the determinants and distribution of disease, disability, or health outcomes. May develop the means for prevention and control.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Epidemiologists are public health professionals who investigate patterns and causes of disease and injury in humans. They seek to reduce the risk and occurrence of negative health outcomes through research, community education, and health policy.Epidemiologists work in offices and laboratories, usually at health departments for state and local governments, in hospitals, and at colleges and universities. Some do fieldwork to conduct interviews and collect samples for analyses. Fieldwork may bring epidemiologists into contact with infectious disease, but they very rarely get sick or suffer contagion.Epidemiologists need at least a master's degree from an accredited postsecondary institution. Most epidemiologists have a master's in public health (MPH) or a related field, and some have a doctoral training in epidemiology.The median annual wage for epidemiologists was $65,270 in May 2012.Employment of epidemiologists is projected to grow 10 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Epidemiologists are likely to have good job prospects overall.