Job Title: Industrial Engineering Technicians
Major:  Engineering

Description: Apply engineering theory and principles to problems of industrial layout or manufacturing production, usually under the direction of engineering staff. May perform time and motion studies on worker operations in a variety of industries for purposes such as establishing standard production rates or improving efficiency.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Industrial engineering technicians help industrial engineers implement designs to effectively use personnel, materials, and machines in factories, stores, healthcare organizations, repair shops, and offices. They prepare machinery and equipment layouts, plan workflows, conduct statistical production studies, and analyze production costs.Industrial engineering technicians work in various industries and businesses to coordinate activities that ensure the quality of final products or services. Most work full time.Industrial engineering technicians typically need an associate's degree or a postsecondary certificate. Associate's degree programs are typically offered by community colleges or technical institutes, and certificate programs are offered at vocational and technical schools.The median annual wage for industrial engineering technicians was $50,980 in May 2012.Employment of industrial engineering technicians is projected to decline 3 percent from 2012 to 2022. The growing emphasis on cost control through increasing efficiency will keep up demand for industrial engineering technicians' services in most industries, including nonprofits.