Job Title: Boilermakers
Major:  Construction Trades

Description: Construct, assemble, maintain, and repair stationary steam boilers and boiler house auxiliaries. Align structures or plate sections to assemble boiler frame tanks or vats, following blueprints. Work involves use of hand and power tools, plumb bobs, levels, wedges, dogs, or turnbuckles. Assist in testing assembled vessels. Direct cleaning of boilers and boiler furnaces. Inspect and repair boiler fittings, such as safety valves, regulators, automatic-control mechanisms, water columns, and auxiliary machines.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Boilermakers assemble, install, and repair boilers, closed vats, and other large vessels or containers that hold liquids and gases.Boilermakers perform physically demanding and dangerous work. Many boilermakers must travel to worksites and live away from home for long periods.Most boilermakers learn their trade through an apprenticeship program. Candidates are more likely to be accepted into training programs if they already have welding experience and certification.The median annual wage for boilermakers was $56,560 in May 2012.Employment of boilermakers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Workers with welding experience and general mechanical aptitude will have the best job opportunities.