Job Title: Aerospace Engineering and Operations Technicians
Major:  Biology & Biomedical Sciences

Description: Operate, install, calibrate, and maintain integrated computer/communications systems, consoles, simulators, and other data acquisition, test, and measurement instruments and equipment, which are used to launch, track, position, and evaluate air and space vehicles. May record and interpret test data.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Aerospace engineering and operations technicians operate and maintain equipment used in developing, testing, and producing new aircraft and spacecraft. Increasingly, these workers are using computer-based modeling and simulation tools and processes in their work.Aerospace engineering and operations technicians usually work full time in laboratories, offices, and manufacturing or industrial plants. Some of these workers may be exposed to hazards from equipment or from toxic materials, but incidents are rare as long as proper procedures are followed.Aerospace engineering and operations technicians with an associate's degree in engineering technology increasingly are being preferred by employers. Prospective technicians also may earn certificates or diplomas offered by vocational or technical schools. Some aerospace engineering and operations technicians must have security clearances to work on projects related to national defense.The median annual wage for aerospace engineering and operations technicians was $61,530 in May 2012.Employment of aerospace engineering and operations technicians is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Workers in this occupation work on many projects that are related to national defense and therefore require security clearances. These requirements will help to keep jobs in the United States.