Job Title: Archivists
Major:  Art & Art History

Description: Appraise, edit, and direct safekeeping of permanent records and historically valuable documents. Participate in research activities based on archival materials.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Archivists appraise, edit, and maintain permanent records and historically valuable documents. Curators oversee collections of artwork and historic items, and may conduct public service activities for an institution. Museum technicians and conservators prepare and restore objects and documents in museum collections and exhibits.Archivists work in archives and libraries. Most curators work at museums, zoos, aquariums, botanical gardens, and historical sites. Museum technicians work in museums, while conservators mostly work in laboratories.Most archivist, curator, and conservator positions require a master's degree related to the field in which they work. People often gain experience by working or volunteering in archives and museums. Museum technicians must have a bachelor's degree.The median annual wage for archivists, curators, and museum workers was $44,410 in May 2012.Overall employment of archivists, curators, museum technicians, and conservators is projected to grow 11 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations.Â The need to store information in archives and public interest in science, art, and history will continue to spur demand for curators, museum technicians, and conservators. Applicants should expect very strong competition for jobs.