Job Title: Construction and Building Inspectors
Major:  Construction Trades

Description: Inspect structures using engineering skills to determine structural soundness and compliance with specifications, building codes, and other regulations. Inspections may be general in nature or may be limited to a specific area, such as electrical systems or plumbing.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Construction and building inspectors ensure that construction meets local and national building codes and ordinances, zoning regulations, and contract specifications.Construction and building inspectors spend considerable time inspecting worksites, alone or as part of a team. Some inspectors may have to climb ladders or crawl in tight spaces. Most work full time during regular business hours.Most employers require inspectors to have at least a high school diploma and considerable knowledge of construction trades. Construction and building inspectors typically learn on the job. Many states and local jurisdictions require some type of license or certification.The median annual wage for construction and building inspectors was $53,450 in May 2012.Employment of construction and building inspectors is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Concern for public safety and a desire to improve the quality of construction should continue to increase demand for inspectors. Construction and building inspectors who are certified and can do a variety of inspections should have the best job opportunities.