Job Title: Broadcast Technicians
Major:  Agriculture & Agricultural Sciences

Description: Set up, operate, and maintain the electronic equipment used to transmit radio and television programs. Control audio equipment to regulate volume level and quality of sound during radio and television broadcasts. Operate transmitter to broadcast radio or television programs.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Broadcast and sound engineering technicians set up, operate, and maintain the electrical equipment for radio and television broadcasts, concerts, sound recordings, movies and in office and school buildings.Broadcast and sound engineering technicians typically work indoors in radio, television, movie and recording studios, or offices and school buildings.Broadcast and sound engineering technicians typically need postsecondary education, but depending on the work they do, it could be a postsecondary non-degree award or an associate's degree.The median annual wage for broadcast and sound engineering technicians was $41,200 in May 2012.Employment of broadcast and sound engineering technicians is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Growth is expected to stem from businesses, schools, and radio and television stations seeking new equipment to improve their audio and video capabilities.