Job Title: Machinists
Major:  Engineering

Description: Set up and operate a variety of machine tools to produce precision parts and instruments. Includes precision instrument makers who fabricate, modify, or repair mechanical instruments. May also fabricate and modify parts to make or repair machine tools or maintain industrial machines, applying knowledge of mechanics, mathematics, metal properties, layout, and machining procedures.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Machinists and tool and die makers set up and operate a variety of computer-controlled and mechanically-controlled machine tools to produce precision metal parts, instruments, and tools.Machinists and tool and die makers work in machine shops, toolrooms, and factories. Although most work full time during regular business hours, overtime is somewhat common, as is evening and weekend work.Machinists train in apprenticeship programs, vocational schools, community and technical colleges, or informally on the job. To become a fully trained tool and die maker takes a combination of several years of technical instruction and on-the-job training. A high school diploma is necessary.In May 2012, the median hourly wage for machinists was $18.99. The median hourly wage for tool and die makers was $22.60 in May 2012.Employment of machinists and tool and die makers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Workers with computer skills who can perform multiple tasks in a machine shop will have the best job opportunities.