Job Title: Forensic Science Technicians
Major:  Protective Services, Criminal Justice & Criminology

Description: Collect, identify, classify, and analyze physical evidence related to criminal investigations. Perform tests on weapons or substances, such as fiber, hair, and tissue to determine significance to investigation. May testify as expert witnesses on evidence or crime laboratory techniques. May serve as specialists in area of expertise, such as ballistics, fingerprinting, handwriting, or biochemistry.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Forensic science technicians help investigate crimes by collecting and analyzing physical evidence. Many technicians specialize in either crime scene investigation or laboratory analysis. Most forensic science technicians spend some time writing reports.Most laboratory forensic science technicians work full time during normal business hours. Crime scene investigators may work long hours, and travel to crime scenes within their jurisdiction.Forensic science technicians typically need at least a bachelor's degree in the natural sciences, such as chemistry or biology. On-the-job training is usually required for both those who investigate crime scenes and those who work in labs.The median annual wage for forensic science technicians was $52,840 in May 2012.Employment of forensic science technicians is projected to grow 6 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Competition for jobs will be strong because of substantial interest in forensic science.