Job Title: Telecommunications Equipment Installers and Repairers, Except Line Installers
Major:  Film, Radio, Television & Photographic Arts

Description: Install, set-up, rearrange, or remove switching, distribution, routing, and dialing equipment used in central offices or headends. Service or repair telephone, cable television, Internet, and other communications equipment on customers' property. May install communications equipment or communications wiring in buildings.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Telecommunications equipment installers and repairers, also known as telecom technicians, set up and maintain devices or equipment that carry communications signals, connect to telephone lines, or access the Internet.Telecommunications equipment installers and repairers generally work in climate-controlled central offices or electronic service centers. They also work in the homes and offices of customers. Some technicians must travel frequently to installation and repair sites. Most technicians work full time.Telecom technicians typically need some postsecondary education in electronics, telecommunications, or computer technology, and receive on-the-job training. Industry certification is required for some positions.The median annual wage for telecommunications equipment installers and repairers was $54,530 in May 2012.Employment of telecommunications equipment installers and repairers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Candidates with a 2-year degree and strong customer-service and computer skills will have the best job prospects.