Job Title: Private Detectives and Investigators
Major:  Medicine & Healthcare

Description: Gather, analyze, compile and report information regarding individuals or organizations to clients, or detect occurrences of unlawful acts or infractions of rules in private establishment.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Private detectives and investigators find facts and analyze information about legal, financial, and personal matters. They offer many services, including verifying people's backgrounds, finding missing persons, and investigating computer crimes.Private detectives and investigators work in many places, depending on the case. Some spend more time in offices doing computer searches, while others spend more time in the field conducting interviews and performing surveillance. They often work irregular hours. About 1 in 5 were self-employed in 2012.Private detectives and investigators mostly need several years of work experience in law enforcement. Workers must also have a high school diploma, and the vast majority of states require private detectives and investigators to have a license.The median annual wage for private detectives and investigators was $45,740 in May 2012.Employment of private detectives and investigators is projected to grow 11 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Demand for private detectives and investigators will stem from security concerns and the need to protect confidential information. Strong competition can be expected for jobs.