Job Title: Stationary Engineers and Boiler Operators
Major:  Mechanic & Repair Technician Programs

Description: Operate or maintain stationary engines, boilers, or other mechanical equipment to provide utilities for buildings or industrial processes. Operate equipment, such as steam engines, generators, motors, turbines, and steam boilers.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Stationary engineers and boiler operators control stationary engines, boilers, or other mechanical equipment to provide utilities for buildings or for industrial purposes.The majority of stationary engineers and boiler operators work in manufacturing, government, educational services, and hospitals. Those who work in facilities that operate around the clock often work evenings and weekends. Shift work also is common.Stationary engineers and boiler operators need at least a high school diploma and are trained on the job by more experienced engineers.Â Many employers require stationary engineers and boiler operators to demonstrate competency through licenses or company-specific exams before they are able to operate equipment without supervision.The median annual wage for stationary engineers and boiler operators was $53,560 in May 2012.Employment of stationary engineers and boiler operators is projected to grow 3 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Those with apprenticeship training will have the best job opportunities.