Job Title: Instructional Coordinators
Major:  Music

Description: Develop instructional material, coordinate educational content, and incorporate current technology in specialized fields that provide guidelines to educators and instructors for developing curricula and conducting courses. Includes educational consultants and specialists, and instructional material directors.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Instructional coordinators oversee school curriculums and teaching standards. They develop instructional material, coordinate its implementation with teachers and principals, and assess its effectiveness.Instructional coordinators work in elementary and secondary schools, and various education institutions, such as colleges, professional schools, and education support services. They typically work year-round.Instructional coordinators need a master's degree and related work experience, such as teaching or school administration. Coordinators in public schools may be required to have a state-issued license.The median annual wage for instructional coordinators was $60,050 in May 2012.Employment of instructional coordinators is projected to grow 13 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Employment growth is expected as schools focus on evaluating and improving curriculums and teachers' effectiveness.