Job Title: Electro-Mechanical Technicians
Major:  Metal Work & Precision Production

Description: Operate, test, maintain, or calibrate unmanned, automated, servo-mechanical, or electromechanical equipment. May operate unmanned submarines, aircraft, or other equipment at worksites, such as oil rigs, deep ocean exploration, or hazardous waste removal. May assist engineers in testing and designing robotics equipment.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Electro-mechanical technicians combine knowledge of mechanical technology with knowledge of electrical and electronic circuits. They install, troubleshoot, repair, and upgrade electronic and computer-controlled mechanical systems, such as robotic assembly machines.Electro-mechanical technicians work closely with electrical and mechanical engineers. They work primarily in manufacturing, engineering services, and research and development.Electro-mechanical technicians typically need either an associate's degree or a postsecondary certificate.The median annual wage for electro-mechanical technicians was $51,820 in May 2012.Employment of electro-mechanical technicians is projected to grow 4 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Electro-mechanical technicians are generalists in technology, and their broad skill set will help sustain demand for their services.