Job Title: Survey Researchers
Major:  Economics

Description: Plan, develop, or conduct surveys. May analyze and interpret the meaning of survey data, determine survey objectives, or suggest or test question wording. Includes social scientists who primarily design questionnaires or supervise survey teams.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Survey researchers design surveys and analyze data. Surveys are used to collect factual data, such as employment and salary information, or to ask questions in order to understand people's opinions, preferences, beliefs, or desires.Most survey researchers work in research firms, polling organizations, nonprofits, corporations, colleges and universities, and government agencies. The majority work full time during regular business hours.Although some survey researchers have a bachelor's degree, most technical research positions require a master's degree. In addition, employers generally prefer candidates who have previous experience performing research, using statistics, and analyzing data.The median annual wage for survey researchers was $45,050 in May 2012.Employment of survey researchers is projected to grow 18 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Employment will grow as organizations are increasingly relying on data and information acquired through research. Job prospects should be good for those with an advanced degree.