Job Title: Wholesale and Retail Buyers, Except Farm Products
Major:  Agriculture & Agricultural Sciences

Description: Buy merchandise or commodities, other than farm products, for resale to consumers at the wholesale or retail level, including both durable and nondurable goods. Analyze past buying trends, sales records, price, and quality of merchandise to determine value and yield. Select, order, and authorize payment for merchandise according to contractual agreements. May conduct meetings with sales personnel and introduce new products. Includes assistant wholesale and retail buyers of nonfarm products.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Purchasing managers, buyers, and purchasing agents buy products for organizations to use or resell. They evaluate suppliers, negotiate contracts, and review product quality.Most purchasing managers, buyers, and purchasing agents work full time. Many work more than 40 hours per week.Although educational requirements for buyers and purchasing agents may vary by the size of the organization and the type of product, all need extensive on-the-job training. Purchasing managers need a bachelor's degree and work experience as a buyer or purchasing agent.The median annual wage for purchasing managers, buyers, and purchasing agents was $60,550 in May 2012.Employment of purchasing managers, buyers, and purchasing agents is projected to grow 4 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. These workers will be needed to buy goods and services for business operations or for resale to customers. Employment growth will vary based on the type of purchasing agent or manager and the specific industry.