Job Title: Automotive Body and Related Repairers
Major:  Mechanic & Repair Technician Programs

Description: Repair and refinish automotive vehicle bodies and straighten vehicle frames.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Automotive body and glass repairers restore, refinish, and replace vehicle bodies and frames, windshields, and window glass.Repair technicians work indoors in body shops, which are often noisy. Most shops are well ventilated to disperse dust and paint fumes. Repair technicians sometimes work in awkward and cramped positions, and their work can be physically demanding.Â Automotive glass installers and repairers often travel to the customer's location to repair damaged windshields and window glass.Most employers prefer to hire repairers who have completed a formal training program in automotive body repair or refinishing. Still, many new repairers begin work without formal training. Industry certification is becoming increasingly important.In May 2012, the median annual wage for automotive body and related repairers was $38,380. The median annual wage for automotive glass installers and repairers was $32,650 in May 2012.Employment of automotive body and glass repairers is projected to grow 13 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Job opportunities should be very good for jobseekers with industry certification and formal training in automotive body repair and refinishing and in collision repair.