Job Title: Soil and Plant Scientists
Major:  Biology & Biomedical Sciences

Description: Conduct research in breeding, physiology, production, yield, and management of crops and agricultural plants or trees, shrubs, and nursery stock, their growth in soils, and control of pests; or study the chemical, physical, biological, and mineralogical composition of soils as they relate to plant or crop growth. May classify and map soils and investigate effects of alternative practices on soil and crop productivity.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Agricultural and food scientists work to ensure that agricultural establishments are productive and food is safe.Most agricultural and food scientists work in research universities, private industry, or the federal government. They work in offices, laboratories, and may sometimes work in food production facilities. Most agricultural and food scientists work full time.Agricultural and food scientists need at least a bachelor's degree from an accredited postsecondary institution, although many get a doctoral degree. Food scientists and technologists and soil and plant scientists typically earn bachelor's degrees. Most animal scientists earn a Ph.D.The median annual wage for agricultural and food scientists was $58,610 in May 2012.Employment of agricultural and food scientists is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Agricultural and food scientists should have good job prospects overall.