Job Title: Economists
Major:  Family & Consumer Sciences, Food, Nutrition

Description: Conduct research, prepare reports, or formulate plans to address economic problems related to the production and distribution of goods and services or monetary and fiscal policy. May collect and process economic and statistical data using sampling techniques and econometric methods.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Economists study the production and distribution of resources, goods, and services by collecting and analyzing data, researching trends, and evaluating economic issues.Although the majority of economists work independently in an office, some collaborate with other economists and statisticians. Most economists work full time during regular business hours, but occasionally they work long hours to meet deadlines.Most economists need a master's degree or Ph.D. However, some entry-level jobs—primarily in the federal government—are available for workers with a bachelor's degree.The median annual wage for economists was $91,860 in May 2012.Employment of economists is projected to grow 14 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Job prospects should be best for those with a master's degree or Ph.D., strong analytical skills, and related work experience.