Job Title: Geographers
Major:  Anthropology & Archeology

Description: Study the nature and use of areas of the Earth's surface, relating and interpreting interactions of physical and cultural phenomena. Conduct research on physical aspects of a region, including land forms, climates, soils, plants, and animals, and conduct research on the spatial implications of human activities within a given area, including social characteristics, economic activities, and political organization, as well as researching interdependence between regions at scales ranging from local to global.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Geographers study the earth and its land, features, and inhabitants. They also examine phenomena such as political or cultural structures as they relate to geography. They study the physical and human geographic characteristics of a region, ranging in scale from local to global.About half of all geographers are employed by the federal government. Most work full time during regular business hours. Many geographers do fieldwork, which may include travel to foreign countries or remote locations.Geographers need at least a master's degree for most positions outside of the federal government. Those with a bachelor's degree may qualify for some entry-level jobs in the federal government, but many of these jobs often require geography experience or training in geographic information systems (GIS).The median annual wage for geographers was $74,760 in May 2012.Employment of geographers is projected to grow 29 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. Increasing use of geographic technologies and data will drive employment growth, but a limited number of positions in the field will lead to strong competition for jobs.