Job Title: Opticians, Dispensing
Major:  Personal Care Services

Description: Design, measure, fit, and adapt lenses and frames for client according to written optical prescription or specification. Assist client with inserting, removing, and caring for contact lenses. Assist client with selecting frames. Measure customer for size of eyeglasses and coordinate frames with facial and eye measurements and optical prescription. Prepare work order for optical laboratory containing instructions for grinding and mounting lenses in frames. Verify exactness of finished lens spectacles. Adjust frame and lens position to fit client. May shape or reshape frames. Includes contact lens opticians.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Dispensing opticians help fit eyeglasses and contact lenses, following prescriptions from ophthalmologists and optometrists. They also help customers decide which eyeglass frames or contact lenses to buy.Some opticians work in stores that sell eyeglasses, contact lenses, visual aids, and other optical goods. These stores may be stand-alone businesses or parts of larger retail establishments, such as department stores. Other opticians work as part of a group optometry or medical practice.Opticians typically have a high school diploma or equivalent and some form of on-the-job training. Some opticians enter the occupation with an associate's degree or a certificate from a community college or technical school. Licensure is required in some states.The median annual wage for opticians was $33,330 in May 2012.Employment of opticians is projected to grow 23 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. An aging population and increasing rates of chronic disease are expected to lead to greater demand for corrective eyewear.