Job Title: Psychiatric Aides
Major:  Medicine & Healthcare

Description: Assist mentally impaired or emotionally disturbed patients, working under direction of nursing and medical staff. May assist with daily living activities, lead patients in educational and recreational activities, or accompany patients to and from examinations and treatments. May restrain violent patients. Includes psychiatric orderlies.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Psychiatric technicians and aides care for people who have mental illness and developmental disabilities. Technicians typically provide therapeutic care. Aides help patients in their daily activities and ensure a safe, clean environment.Psychiatric technicians and aides work in psychiatric hospitals, residential mental health facilities, and related healthcare settings. They may spend much of their shift on their feet, and they have high injury and illness rates.Psychiatric technicians typically need postsecondary education, and aides need at least a high school diploma. Technicians and aides get on-the-job training.In May 2012, the median annual wage for psychiatric technicians was $30,050. The median annual wage for psychiatric aides was $24,580 in May 2012.Employment of psychiatric technicians and aides is projected to grow 5 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Demand for this occupation will stem from the growth of the older population. Older people typically experience higher rates of cognitive illnesses than younger people do.