Job Title: Tool and Die Makers
Major:  Art & Art History

Description: Analyze specifications, lay out metal stock, set up and operate machine tools, and fit and assemble parts to make and repair dies, cutting tools, jigs, fixtures, gauges, and machinists' hand tools.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Machinists and tool and die makers set up and operate a variety of computer-controlled and mechanically-controlled machine tools to produce precision metal parts, instruments, and tools.Machinists and tool and die makers work in machine shops, toolrooms, and factories. Although most work full time during regular business hours, overtime is somewhat common, as is evening and weekend work.Machinists train in apprenticeship programs, vocational schools, community and technical colleges, or informally on the job. To become a fully trained tool and die maker takes a combination of several years of technical instruction and on-the-job training. A high school diploma is necessary.In May 2012, the median hourly wage for machinists was $18.99. The median hourly wage for tool and die makers was $22.60 in May 2012.Employment of machinists and tool and die makers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Workers with computer skills who can perform multiple tasks in a machine shop will have the best job opportunities.