Job Title: Air Traffic Controllers
Major:  Transportation & Aviation

Description: Control air traffic on and within vicinity of airport and movement of air traffic between altitude sectors and control centers according to established procedures and policies. Authorize, regulate, and control commercial airline flights according to government or company regulations to expedite and ensure flight safety.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Air traffic controllers coordinate the movement of air traffic to ensure that aircraft stay safe distances apart.Air traffic controllers work in control towers, approach control facilities, or route centers. Their work can be stressful because total concentration is required at all times. Night, weekend, and rotating shifts are common.To become an air traffic controller, a person must be a U.S. citizen, pass medical and background checks, achieve a qualifying score on the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) pre-employment test, and complete a training course at the FAA Academy.The median annual wage for air traffic controllers was $122,530 in May 2012.Employment of air traffic controllers is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Most employment opportunities will result from the need to replace workers who retire or leave the occupation. Job opportunities will be best for applicants with an air traffic management degree from an FAA-certified school or have an air traffic control background.