Job Title: Mobile Heavy Equipment Mechanics, Except Engines
Major:  Transportation & Aviation

Description: Diagnose, adjust, repair, or overhaul mobile mechanical, hydraulic, and pneumatic equipment, such as cranes, bulldozers, graders, and conveyors, used in construction, logging, and surface mining.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Heavy vehicle and mobile equipment service technicians inspect, maintain, and repair vehicles and machinery used in construction, farming, rail transportation, and other industries.Service technicians usually work indoors in noisy repair shops. They often lift heavy parts and tools, handle greasy and dirty equipment, and stand or lie in uncomfortable positions. Most service technicians work full time, and many work evenings and weekends.Although a high school diploma is the typical education needed for entry, employers increasingly prefer to hire service technicians who have some postsecondary education. The majority of workers, however, still learn informally on the job.The median annual wage for heavy vehicle and mobile equipment service technicians was $43,820 in May 2012.Employment of heavy vehicle and mobile equipment service technicians is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Those with formal training should have very good job opportunities.