Job Title: Veterinary Assistants and Laboratory Animal Caretakers
Major:  Medicine & Healthcare

Description: Feed, water, and examine pets and other nonfarm animals for signs of illness, disease, or injury in laboratories and animal hospitals and clinics. Clean and disinfect cages and work areas, and sterilize laboratory and surgical equipment. May provide routine post-operative care, administer medication orally or topically, or prepare samples for laboratory examination under the supervision of veterinary or laboratory animal technologists or technicians, veterinarians, or scientists.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers look after animals in laboratories, animal hospitals, and clinics. They care for the well-being of animals by performing routine tasks under the supervision of veterinarians, scientists, and veterinary technologists and technicians.Veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers work mainly in clinics, animal hospitals, and research laboratories. Their work may be physically and emotionally demanding.Most veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers have a high school diploma and learn on the job.The median annual wage for veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers was $23,130 in May 2012.Employment of veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers is projected to grow 10 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations.Â Despite average employment growth, high occupational turnover will result in good job opportunities.