Job Title: Cartographers and Photogrammetrists
Major:  Geography, Cartography & Demography

Description: Collect, analyze, and interpret geographic information provided by geodetic surveys, aerial photographs, and satellite data. Research, study, and prepare maps and other spatial data in digital or graphic form for legal, social, political, educational, and design purposes. May work with Geographic Information Systems (GIS). May design and evaluate algorithms, data structures, and user interfaces for GIS and mapping systems.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Cartographers and photogrammetrists collect, measure, and interpret geographic information to create maps and charts for political, educational, and other purposes.Although cartographers and photogrammetrists spend much of their time in offices, certain jobs require extensive travel to locations that are being mapped. Some photogrammetrists perform aerial surveys.A bachelor's degree in cartography, geography, geomatics, or civil engineering is the most common path of entry into this occupation. Cartographers and photogrammetrists must be licensed in some states.The median annual wage for cartographers and photogrammetrists was $57,440 in May 2012.Employment of cartographers and photogrammetrists is projected to grow 20 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Increasing use of maps for national security and local government planning should fuel employment growth. For this reason, job prospects are likely to be excellent for photogrammetrists.