Job Title: Operations Research Analysts
Major:  Biology & Biomedical Sciences

Description: Formulate and apply mathematical modeling and other optimizing methods to develop and interpret information that assists management with decision making, policy formulation, or other managerial functions. May collect and analyze data and develop decision support software, service, or products. May develop and supply optimal time, cost, or logistics networks for program evaluation, review, or implementation.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Operations research analysts use advanced mathematical and analytical methods to help organizations investigate complex issues, identify and solve problems, and make better decisions.Operations research analysts spend most of their time in offices. Almost all operations research analysts work full time.Although some employers prefer to hire applicants with a master's degree or PhDs, many entry-level positions are available for those with a bachelor's degree. Since few schools offer bachelor's or advanced degree programs in operations research, analysts typically have degrees in other quantitative fields, such as computer science, industrial engineering, or mathematics.The median annual wage for operations research analysts was $72,100 in May 2012.Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 27 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. As technology advances and companies seek efficiency and cost savings, demand for operations research analysis should continue to grow.