Job Title: Educational, Guidance, School, and Vocational Counselors
Major:  Business Administration & Management

Description: Counsel individuals and provide group educational and vocational guidance services.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: School counselors help students develop social skills and succeed in school. Career counselors assist people with the process of making career decisions, by helping them choose a career or educational program.School counselors work in public and private schools. Career counselors work in colleges, government agencies and career centers, and private practices. Both types of counselors generally work full time.Most school counselors must be credentialed and have a master's degree in school counseling or a related field. Many employers prefer that career counselors have a master's degree. Career counselors who work in private practices may also need a license.The median annual wage for school and career counselors was $53,610 in May 2012.Employment of school and career counselors is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Increasing school enrollments should lead to employment growth of school and career counselors. However, hiring may be limited, due to slow growth—or decline—in school funding from state and local governments.