Job Title: Marine Engineers
Major:  Business Administration & Management

Description: Design, develop, and take responsibility for the installation of ship machinery and related equipment including propulsion machines and power supply systems.

Requirements: Experience: A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.

Education: Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.


Significant Points: Marine engineers and naval architects design, build, and maintain ships from aircraft carriers to submarines, from sailboats to tankers. Marine engineers work on the mechanical systems, such as propulsion and steering. Naval architects work on the basic design, including the form and stability of hulls.Marine engineers and naval architects held about 7,300 jobs in 2012.Â They typically work in offices, where they have access to computer software and other tools necessary for analyzing projects and designing solutions. Sometimes, they must go to sea on ships to test them or maintain them.Marine engineers and naval architects typically have a bachelor's degree in marine engineering, naval architecture, marine systems engineering, or marine engineering technology. Employers also value practical experience, so cooperative education programs, which provide college credit for structured job experience, are valuable.The median annual wage for marine engineers and naval architects was $88,100 in May 2012.Employment of marine engineers and naval architects is projected to grow 10 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. The need to design ships and systems to transport energy products, such as liquefied natural gas, across the globe will help to spur employment growth for this occupation.