Job Title: Education Administrators, Postsecondary
Major:  Communications, Advertising & Journalism

Description: Plan, direct, or coordinate research, instructional, student administration and services, and other educational activities at postsecondary institutions, including universities, colleges, and junior and community colleges.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Postsecondary education administrators oversee student services, academics, and faculty research at colleges and universities. Their job duties vary depending on the area of the college they manage, such as admissions, student life, or the office of the registrar.Postsecondary education administrators work in colleges, universities, community colleges, and technical and trade schools. Most work full time.Although a bachelor's degree may be acceptable for some entry-level positions, a master's degree or Ph.D. is often required. Employers often want candidates who have experience working in the field, especially for occupations such as registrars and academic deans.The median annual wage for postsecondary education administrators was $86,490 in May 2012.Employment of postsecondary education administrators is projected to grow 15 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Expected growth is due to increases in enrollments.