Job Title: Pesticide Handlers, Sprayers, and Applicators, Vegetation
Major:  Agriculture & Agricultural Sciences

Description: Mix or apply pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, or insecticides through sprays, dusts, vapors, soil incorporation, or chemical application on trees, shrubs, lawns, or botanical crops. Usually requires specific training and State or Federal certification.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Grounds maintenance workers provide a pleasant outdoor environment by ensuring that the grounds of houses, businesses, and parks are attractive, orderly, and healthy.Many grounds maintenance jobs are seasonal, available mainly in the spring, summer, and fall. Most of the work is done outdoors in all kinds of weather. The work can be repetitive and physically demanding, requiring frequent bending, kneeling, lifting, and shoveling.Most grounds maintenance workers need no formal education and are trained on the job. Most states require licensing for workers who apply pesticides.The median hourly wage for grounds maintenance workers was $11.53 in May 2012.Employment of grounds maintenance workers is projected to grow 13 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. More workers will be needed to keep up with increasing demand for lawn care and landscaping services from large institutions and individual homeowners. Job prospects should be very good.