Job Title: Administrative Law Judges, Adjudicators, and Hearing Officers
Major:  Law & Legal Studies

Description: Conduct hearings to recommend or make decisions on claims concerning government programs or other government-related matters. Determine liability, sanctions, or penalties, or recommend the acceptance or rejection of claims or settlements.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Judges and hearing officers apply the law by overseeing the legal process in courts. They also conduct pretrial hearings, resolve administrative disputes, facilitate negotiations between opposing parties, and issue legal decisions.All judges and hearing officers are employed by local, state, and federal governments. Most work in courts. The majority work full time.Judges usually have law degrees and work experience as lawyers. However, some administrative law judge, hearing officer, and magistrate positions only require a bachelor's degree.In May 2012, the median annual wage for judges, magistrate judges and magistrates was $115,760. The median annual wage for administrative law judges, adjudicators and hearing officers was $87,240 in May 2012.Employment of judges and hearing officers is projected to show little or no change from 2012 to 2022. Â The number of federal and state judgeships is projected to remain steady because nearly every new position for a judge must be authorized and approved by legislature.