Job Title: Drywall and Ceiling Tile Installers
Major:  Metal Work & Precision Production

Description: Apply plasterboard or other wallboard to ceilings or interior walls of buildings. Apply or mount acoustical tiles or blocks, strips, or sheets of shock-absorbing materials to ceilings and walls of buildings to reduce or reflect sound. Materials may be of decorative quality. Includes lathers who fasten wooden, metal, or rockboard lath to walls, ceilings or partitions of buildings to provide support base for plaster, fire-proofing, or acoustical material.

Requirements: Experience: Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.

Education: These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.

Training: Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.


Significant Points: Drywall and ceiling tile installers hang wallboards to walls and ceilings and install ceiling tile inside buildings. Tapers prepare the wallboards for painting, using tape and other materials. Many workers do both installing and taping.Drywall and ceiling tile installers and tapers spend most of the day standing, bending, or stretching. Injuries include falls from ladders or stilts, cuts from sharp tools, and muscle strains from lifting heavy materials. The work also can produce dust, which can irritate the skin, eyes, and lungs.Although most drywall and ceiling tile installers and tapers learn their trade on the job, some learn through an apprenticeship.In May 2012, the median annual wage for drywall and ceiling tile installers was $37,210. The median annual wage for tapers was $45,290 in May 2012.Employment of drywall and ceiling tile installers and tapers is projected to grow 16 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Trained workers with a good work history and experience in the construction industry should have the best job opportunities.