Job Title: Chemical Technicians
Major:  Agriculture & Agricultural Sciences

Description: Conduct chemical and physical laboratory tests to assist scientists in making qualitative and quantitative analyses of solids, liquids, and gaseous materials for research and development of new products or processes, quality control, maintenance of environmental standards, and other work involving experimental, theoretical, or practical application of chemistry and related sciences.

Requirements: Experience: Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.

Education: Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.

Training: Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.


Significant Points: Chemical technicians use special instruments and techniques to help chemists and chemical engineers research, develop, and produce chemical products and processes.Technicians typically work in laboratories, where they conduct experiments, or in manufacturing facilities, such as chemical or pharmaceutical manufacturing plants, where they monitor production processes. Most technicians work full time.Chemical technicians need an associate's degree or 2 years of postsecondary education for most jobs. Most chemical technicians receive on-the-job training.The median annual wage for chemical technicians was $42,920 in May 2012.Employment of chemical technicians is projected to grow 9 percent from 2012 to 2022, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Graduates of applied science technology programs who are trained to use equipment typically found in laboratories or production facilities should have the best opportunities.