Job Title: Atmospheric, Earth, Marine, and Space Sciences Teachers, Postsecondary
Major:  Atmospheric Sciences & Meteorology

Description: Teach courses in the physical sciences, except chemistry and physics. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching, and those who do a combination of teaching and research.

Requirements: Experience: Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.

Education: A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).

Training: Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.


Significant Points: Postsecondary teachers instruct students in a wide variety of academic and vocational subjects beyond the high school level. They also conduct research and publish scholarly papers and books.Postsecondary teachers work in public and private colleges and universities, professional schools, junior or community colleges, and career and vocational schools. Outside of class time, their schedules are generally flexible, and they may spend that time in administrative, student advising, and research activities.Educational requirements vary with the subject taught and the type of educational institution. Most commonly, postsecondary teachers must have a Ph.D. However, a master's degree may be enough for some postsecondary teachers at community colleges. In technical and trade schools, work experience may be important for getting a postsecondary teaching job.The median annual wage for postsecondary teachers was $68,970 in May 2012.Employment of postsecondary teachers is projected to grow 19 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Growth is expected as enrollments at postsecondary institutions at all levels continue to rise, although at slower rates than they have in the past. Many jobs are expected to be for part-time or adjunct faculty.